---
title: '173'
id: 173
categories:
  - Uncategorized
date: 2007-04-07 05:00:00
tags:
---

<span style="font-size:180%;">Ajax Smackdown: Dojo versus YUI!</span>
> Note: I was going to blob about the FLEV widget today, but I thought I should mention the smackdown presentation first, since it's on Tuesday. I'll follow up on that with the slides and a written article. In the meantime, [check out the FLEV test page](http://www.geocities.com/planetyazaar/examples/dataform/tutorial-tabview.html)!

Here's a description of a presentation scheduled for Tuesday, April 10, here in Rochester NY:

Since Jesse James Garrett coined the term Ajax in February 2005, the development landscape has exploded with Ajax frameworks, toolkits, and libraries. Although there are literally hundreds of libraries available today, two of the top contenders are the Dojo JavaScript Toolkit and the Yahoo! User Interface (YUI) Library.

On a recent Ajax spike, my team created the same example application in both Dojo and YUI.  Let's compare the implementations, and see how the underlying Ajax products differ.  Both Dojo and YUI are excellent products in their own way. But, which is the best fit for you, your application, and your organization?

Bio: Ted Husted is a software engineer and team mentor. His specialty is building agile web applications with open source products like Yahoo! User Interface Library, Struts, Spring, iBATIS, and MySQL, for either Java or Microsoft .NET, and helping others do the same.

Ted is a member of the Apache Software Foundation, an active member of the Apache Struts and Apache iBATIS projects, and co-founder of the Jakarta Commons. His books include JUnit in Action, Struts in Action, and Professional JSP Site Design. Ted has consulted with teams throughout the United States, including CitiGroup, Nationwide Insurance, and Pepsi Bottling Group. He is currently working with the Oklahoma State Department of Environmental Services to improve their permitting system.

* Meetings start at 6:00 pm and end around 8:00 pm
&amp; Meetings are held on the Third floor of the Golisano building, at RIT, room 70-3000 - CS conference room.
* Directions to RIT can be found at [url=http://www.rjug.org]www.rjug.org[/url]
* Members of RJUG are now entitled to discounts on O'Reilly books. Details will be available at the meeting.