---
title: '213'
id: 213
categories:
  - Uncategorized
date: 2006-09-16 05:00:00
tags:
---

<span style="font-size:180%;">SportsForge: A Working Example</span>

Once upon a time, Jeff Wellings, an earnest entrepreneur with technical savvy, setup a website to post stories and statistics about local high school athletes. Since he lives in New York State's Section 10, the website became [SectionXSports.com](http://www.sectionxsports.com/). It's up and running, and doing quite well, thank you.

Well ... but not quite well enough. 

Like many Model 1 JSP applications, SectionXSports grew in the telling, and the application has become difficult to extend. It works, but making it work better has become a challenge. 

A challenge that open source might be able to answer. 

Jeff has placed the original SectionXSports code under the Apache License, and we setup a Struts "SportsForge" project to work on migrating the application to Struts 2\. My ambition is to grow SportsForge into the archetypical Struts example. Not just a showcase or a random demo, but a real application that people use everyday. 

Towards that end, we've setup a portal site with requirements, use cases, and issue tickets. The whole nine yards. [Feel free to drop by and see what we're up to](http://opensource.atlassian.com/confluence/oss/display/sportsforge/Home), and even lend a hand if you like. 

Who knows, before long, you might want to setup your own friendly neighborhood SportsForge to track the goings on for your kid's team.! 